= AppConfig

An easy to use, customizable library to easily store and retrieve application
(or library) configuration, API keys or basically anything in 'key/value' pairs.


== Usage

Usage is simple.  Just pass either a hash of options, or a block, to
AppConfig.setup.  See AppConfig::Base for a list of valid storage methods.


== AppConfig::Storage::YAML

Given this YAML file:

  ---
  admin_email: 'admin@example.com'
  api_name:    'Supr Webz 2.0'
  api_key:     'SUPERAWESOMESERVICE'

Use it like so:

  require 'app_config'

  AppConfig.setup do |config|
    config[:storage_method] = :yaml
    config[:path] = '/path/to/app_config.yml'
    # ..or..
    config[:uri] = 'yaml://path/to/app_config.yml'
  end

  # Later on...
  # Strings or symbols as keys.
  AppConfig['admin_email'] # => 'admin@example.com'
  AppConfig[:api_name]     # => 'Supr Webz 2.0'
  AppConfig[:api_key]      # => 'SUPERAWESOMESERVICE'


== AppConfig::Storage::Mongo

As of version 0.6.0, you can now use <tt>:mongo</tt> as the storage method.
The values are read/saved (by default) to the 'app_config' database and
'app_config' collection.  These defaults can be overridden, however, which
might lend well to versioned configurations; collection names such as
'app_config_v1', 'app_config_v2', etc.  Check the <tt>DEFAULTS</tt> constant
in AppConfig::Storage::Mongo for the default Mongo connection options.

  AppConfig.setup do |config|
    config[:storage_method] = :mongo
    config[:collection] = 'app_config_v2' # Or any valid Mongo collection name.

    # Override an existing value:
    config[:admin_email] = 'other_admin@example.com'
  end

If you wanted to read/update the configuration from the <tt>mongo</tt> client,
it would look something like this:

  $ mongo
  MongoDB shell version: 1.6.4
  connecting to: test
  > use app_config
  switched to db app_config
  > db.app_config.find()
  { "_id" : ObjectId("4cddc317da98dd42f8000001"), "admin_email" : "admin@example.com" }
  > db.app_config_v2.find()
  { "_id" : ObjectId("4cddc317da98dd42f8000001"), "admin_email" : "other_admin@example.com" }


== AppConfig::Storage::Sqlite

  AppConfig.setup do |config|
    config[:storage_method] = :sqlite
    config[:table] = 'app_config' # defaults to 'app_config'

    config[:database] = '/path/to/database.sqlite3'
    # ..or..
    config[:uri] = 'sqlite://path/to/database.sqlite3'
  end

  AppConfig[:column]  # => 'value'


== Basically just a Hash...

As of version 0.4.1, if the <tt>:storage_method</tt> is not set, AppConfig
will act pretty much just like a normal Hash:

  AppConfig.setup(:email => 'admin@example.com')
  AppConfig[:email]    # => 'admin@example.com'


== Environment Mode

As of version 0.4.0, there's an 'environment mode' where you can organize
the config file sort of like Rails' database config.

  # config/app_config.yml
  development:
    title: 'Development Mode'

  production:
    title: 'Production Mode'

Then set the <tt>:env</tt> option to your desired environment.

  AppConfig.setup do |config|
    config[:env] = Rails.env  # or any string.
    config[:uri] = 'yaml://path/to/app_config.yml'
  end

  # Uses the given environment section of the config.
  AppConfig[:title] = 'Production Mode'
